>> This is CNN breaking news.
>>> Okay, happening right now,
the U.S. National security adviser Jake
Sullivan is speaking at tel aviv after
meeting with Israeli leaders. Let's
listen in. >> President Biden, on his
[3:49:03 AM]
>> President Biden, on his visit on October 18th
and our message then is the same as my message
today. But just that the United States stands with
Israel. As president Biden has said many times,
Israel has a right, indeed a duty to defend
itself against hamas. A terrorist group that
committed the worst massacre of the jewish
people since the holocaust. That used and
sexual violence to terrorize Israeli
women. That continues to hold hostages,
women, the elderly, the sick, the wounded
and heightened tunnels they purposely built
under infrastructure. And I'm here today,
on president Biden's behalf to emphasize
our continued commitment to support Israel
in its fight against hamas. Yesterday and
today I met with Israeli prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu and his war cabinet
and president her sock and arrangement of
senior officials. We discuss the ongoing war,
the military operations and we discussed our
shared objective of ensuring the hamas will
[3:50:03 AM]
of ensuring the hamas will never again pose a
threat to the state of Israel. While minimizing
harm to civilians, while ensuring the increased
and sustained flow of humanitarian assistance into
gaza and while working day in and day out, hour by
hour to secure the release of all of the remaining
hostages so that they could return home to their
loved ones. We consulted on a joint efforts with
the united nations, with Egypt, and other regional
partners to deliver the humanitarian aid. We did
not do a great job of putting the podium sign on.
And I describe the U.S. Efforts in coordination
with allies and partners to deter attempts to disk
spend the conflict regionally including in the red
sea and expressed president Biden's commitment
to express income on the blue line through a
combination of deterrence and diplomacy. Later,
today in, fact I will visit from all of to be
with president abbas and discuss ongoing promotion
to stability he west bank. Including efforts to
confront terrorist attacks him to support
the Palestinian authority security forces
[3:51:04 AM]
authority security forces through the U.S.
Security cordon either through Israel and
the Palestinian authority. And their ongoing
efforts to revisit and revitalize the Palestinian
authority. And their initiatives to hold extremist
settlers against Palestinians. I have and will
continue to stay president Biden in the United
States commitment to preserving space for, peace
for a two-state solution where Israel security is
guaranteed. The Israeli people need and deserve to
live in peace and security with their neighbors in
the region that is integrated, dynamic and stable.
That is what we're working to court. That is what
I discussed with my counterpart here in Israel
Kim. This will be for the future, and will that
will be happy to take your questions. With that,
I'll start with Alex on CNN.
>> Thanks very much Jake. The
administration has made it clear that you are
hoping that this vital transition at some point
from the science entity face to a lower
intensity face. What does this tell you in
[3:52:04 AM]
What does this tell you in terms of the conditions
that need to begin for that to happen? And how
does that sink up with your preferred timeline?
Tim the administration has insisted that they have
the attempt to keep the civilian safe. And, we
have CNN and others reporting that almost half of
the 30,000 bombs have been dropped on gaza, from
so-called gun bombs and precise and if there was
a real intent to protect civilians wouldn't they
be using much more precise smaller I munitions?
Tim >> I really appreciate the questions
of the conflict, and I think that there's
been some misunderstanding in the reporting.
Not for me. But from others thin when Israel
launched this campaign to rule out the terrorist
threat that hamas poses to the state of Israel,
it may clear from the beginning that this world
will proceed. We are now in the middle of a high
intensity phase with ongoing operations,
military operations and in the southern
[3:53:05 AM]
operations and in the southern half of gaza.
But there will be a transition to another face
in this world. One that is focused in more
precise ways on targeting the leadership,
an intelligence driven up that continues to deal
with the ongoing threat that hamas poses. Tim
so it was obviously a subject of conversation
that I had with the prime minister Netanyahu,
with the war cabinet and with the leadership
on the idf and the defense minister. Tim and
it's important that this conversation is, first
we're not here to tell anybody that you must
be, -- this is our perspective, our, partner as
your. From this is what we believe is the best
way to achieve both tactical and strategic goals.
And then second, it has to take place in private.
Because we can't telegraph for the enemy what
the plan is. Tim so I have to speak to timelines,
I have to speak to conditions here from
the podium. But we have very constructive
[3:54:05 AM]
But we have very constructive conversation
yesterday. About the transition about the high
intensity face forward. And I expected that would
occur, in the future. When exactly that happens an
exactly under what conditions, will be continuing
intensive discussion between the united States and
Israel. Tim I will make sure that conversation,
it least us far as I can do it is going to stay
and take place behind closed doors. Love when
it comes to the issues to the bombs, the type of
bombs that Israel was using what I would say is
that different types of ammunition, it requires
different types of military operations. Which
means the method by which the bombs delivered,
they don't have the tell kicks on it it's
different in terms of how the planes fly,
all the targets have selected. And
they all go through the same process.
A process by which it selects processes
and tried to distinguish targets that hit
[3:55:05 AM]
distinguish targets that hit hamas, that might
take the lives of innocent civilians. At the
end of the, day Israel has the intend that
it strong this distinctions clearly and in a
sustainable way. But we want to see the results
matchup to. That that's a conversation that I
had in full with them today and yesterday
as well. And we will continue to do that.
Including on the type of ammunitions they
used and when they used a certain type of
those are delivered to ensure that from the
United States perspective they are fulfilling
their obligations, their responsibilities
as to international humanitarian law.